Release Notes: 2026-03-15 (#3737)
514-labs/moose: apps/framework-docs-v2/content/moosestack/release-notes/2026-03-15.mdx

<Callout type="info" title="Highlights">
* **New:** Query layer supports MaterializedView as a data source
* **New:** CLI commands for runtime logs, env vars, and agent initialization
* **Improved:** SQL template tags renamed to `sql.statement` and `sql.fragment` for clarity
* **Improved:** Python Views support multi-database targeting
</Callout>

## Moose

### New Features

**MaterializedView support in query layer** ([@georgevanderson](https://github.com/georgevanderson))
  `defineQueryModel` now accepts a `MaterializedView` in addition to `OlapTable` as the `table` parameter. When a `MaterializedView` is passed, its target table is used automatically for queries. This also works for joins, letting you build semantic query models on top of pre-aggregated data without manually referencing the underlying target table.

  ```typescript
  import { defineQueryModel, count, sum, timeDimensions } from "@514labs/moose-lib";
  import { HourlyStatsView } from "./materialized-views/HourlyStatsView";

  const statsModel = defineQueryModel({
    name: "hourly_stats",
    description: "Pre-aggregated hourly statistics",

>     table: HourlyStatsView, // MaterializedView — target table resolved automatically

Reviewer: I think the MV object has a .targetTable or something like that, should we mention that here? cc @georgevanderson

    },
    metrics: {
      totalVisits: { agg: count(), as: "total_visits", description: "Total number of visits" },
    },
    filters: {
      status: { column: "status", operators: ["eq", "in"] as const, description: "Filter by visit status" },
    },
  });
  ```

  Docs: [Query Layer Reference](/moosestack/reference/query-layer)

**Multi-database support for Python Views** ([@514Ben](https://github.com/514Ben))
  The Python `View` class now accepts a `database` parameter, letting you create views in a specific ClickHouse database rather than the default. When set, Moose creates the view as `` `database`.`view_name` `` and automatically qualifies source table references.

  ```python
  from moose_lib import View
  from tables import events

  raw_events = View(
      "raw_events",
      "SELECT * FROM {events}",
      [events],
      database="analytics",
  )
  ```

  Docs: [Views](/moosestack/olap/model-view)

### Improvements

- `.mcp.json` configuration files added to all visible templates, pre-configuring the MooseDev MCP server and Context7 for instant AI-assisted development on project init. ([@onelesd](https://github.com/onelesd))

> - `moose build` now fails on TypeScript compile errors, matching the behavior of `moose dev` watch mode. Previously, single-compilation mode set `noEmitOnError: false`, allowing broken builds to succeed silently. ([@cyrusagent[bot]](https://github.com/cyrusagent[bot]))

Reviewer 2: seems weird to attribute to the bot

```suggestion
- `moose build` now fails on TypeScript compile errors, matching the behavior of `moose dev` watch mode. Previously, single-compilation mode set `noEmitOnError: false`, allowing broken builds to succeed silently. ([@onelesd](https://github.com/onelesd))
```
